Thursday, August 8, 2024
Apple Macintosh SE Repair and Upgrade
A Type-Up Report For My Portfolio
Initial Issues
The computer was bought as a full complete set for about $200 or so.
It came with a keyboard, mouse, case, HDD, and FDD (floppy disk drive)
Randomly, after the computer worked for a long time, its floppy drive stopped working.
Along with that, its capacitors are old and are in need to be replaced.
This is very typical for these specific computers. Floppy Disk Fix
For one, the eject and inject mechanisms for the floppy drive have gotten gummy after 40 years and needed lubing and cleaning.
For two, the eject motor (the actual gears that moves the eject mechanism) has gears inside of it that have gotten frail and shattered within, which need to be replaced.
This was an easy fix, however out of the three floppy drives I tried to fix only one remained.
This was because:
One of the chips on one of the floppy drives got fried and the whole drive was dead.
One of the solder joints for the eject motor got torn off and any attempts to hot-wire a fix made it worse.
Fun Fact: The Macintosh 512Ke through the Macintosh SE used 800-Kilobyte floppy drives/disks, only using the much-more common 1.44-Megabyte drives/disks with the SE/30 and beyond. The drives are physically identical and share the same issues.
POWER SUPPLY / ANALOG BOARD RECAP
Following the guide put on the Console5 wiki, I purchased a list of capacitors that go inside the analog board and replaced them all. 
https://wiki.console5.com/wiki/Macintosh_SE
There were some issues regarding confusion about the orientation of the way the capacitors go in. 
However, there were no issues, and the computer worked perfectly.
Fun note: I didn't know the PSU portion of the analog board also had to be recapped, which extended the repair time to over a week waiting for the other caps to come!Hard Disk Replacement
The HDD (Hard Disk Drive) worked perfectly fine.
However, it was big, heavy, and bulky. 
Along with that, Miniscribe-brand drives have very high failure rates and it was a miracle mine still worked.
So I took out the drive and replaced it with a BlueSCSI.
The BlueSCSI is a modern SD-card solution for old Macintoshes. You can create volumes and use them as if they were their own separate hard disks.
They also have a way lower rate of failure.


Conclusion
After fixing the main issues, the computer works like new.
There is a fast hard drive that's double the speed of whatever it had previously.
The power supply is completely fixed and has no issues.
And it is able to read, format, and boot from floppy drives without issue.
Mostly everything is stock, and it is  a good working historic piece.